In this section of the course,
we'll look at how c++ uses streams for IO.
First, we'll learn what streams are, and how they help abstract the complexity
away from working with different types of input and output devices.
Then we'll learn about some of c++ stream manipulators.
These are functions that can affect how we read and write data to and from strings.
Then we'll learn about sum of c++ stream manipulators.
These are functions that can affect how we read and write data to and from streams.
We'll learn about stream manipulators that affect Boolean integer and floating point values.
And then we'll use some manipulators that work with any type of data to help us format our output.
These manipulators give us the ability to align text,
fill blank areas with specific characters and set the width of output fields.
Then we'll do a challenge where we'll use the manipulators to format a
report containing information about tours to South America.
After the stream manipulators, we'll learn about input files. How to open them,
check to see if they were opened successfully, read from them and then close them.
We'll read from them using both formatted and unformatted IO.
And we'll do two challenges using input files.
The first is to create an automated grader,
that will grade student quiz responses from a text file and produce a report of the results.
For the second challenge,
we'll ask the user for a word and see how many times that word appears
in Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet, which is stored on a file and disk.
Then we'll learn about output files and how they work.
We'll learn to open them, write to them in both formatted and unformatted modes and close them.
And then we'll do another challenge that creates a copy of Romeo and Juliet, but adds line numbers to the play.
Then we'll wrap up this section by looking at string streams.
This allows us to use in-memory strings as streams
and use the same IO techniques that we use with files
with in-memory strings, it's very powerful,
and we'll also see how we can use string streams for data validation.
As you'll see in this section, IDE is different where they store files
for use within the IDE.
In the last video of the section,
I'll show you how to set up external text files for reading in visual studio,
code blocks,c line and XCode.
Okay we've got a lot to get to, let's get going.